1) What are the benefits of cloud computing? 
A) • Cost: You do not have to put up-front investment, and in the cloud you pay-as-you-go. This 
drastically reduces cost on IT infrastructure. 
Agile: Anything you get from the cloud takes a few minutes and clicks, for example We want an oracle 
database, we get it in a few clicks. • Maintenance: You don't have to do lots of maintenance, cloud 
providers take care of maintenance.  
• Security: Initially customers felt cloud is not secure, but time has proved, cloudis more secure than 
their own data centers. Cloud offers lots of security controls to safeguard our applications and data. 
• Global Scale: You may have business in one region today and you can scale your business globally.  
2)What are the Cloud Services offering? 
A) Cloud offers so many services, those services are offered in of of the following pattern 
laaS (Infrastructure as a Service): AWS offers virtual machines for example; we have to patch and do 
other maintenance.  
PaaS (Platform as a Service): AWS offers the platform, for example "Elastic Beanstalk", this service 
directly offers tomcat, docker, IIS, and other platforms,so we do not have to setup VM, do patching, etc.  
• SaaS (Software as a Service): The application itself is provided by the vendor, we consume it using a 
web browser or mobile app, for example Gmail, Facebook, LinkedIn, etc. 
3)Difference between Region and Availability zone? 
A) • Region: Region means a geographical location, for example "Mumbai" is aws region. Region is 
usually a combination of 2 or more Availability Zones.  
• Availability Zone: Each region is compound of two or more Availability Zones, AZS are meant 
for HA (High Availability) 
4)How to resize the ec2 instance? 
A) Identify the EC2 instance that you want to resize and ensure that it is in a "Change Instance 
Type". Choose the new instance type that you want to resize stopped state, if possible. Choose 
the option to Actions"-"Instance Settings"> to. Review and confirm the changes to resize the EC2 
instance 
5)How to create a custom AMI? 
A) Launch an EC2 instance based on an existing AMI that matches your desired operating system 
and software configuration Customize the instance to meet your specific requirement, installing 
additional software packages, configuring system settings, and applying security patches. Select 
the instance you want to use to create custom AMI and choose "Create image from the 
"Actions" menu. 
6)How to take EC2 instance backup? 
A) Taking ECZ backup is nothing but creating AMI (Amazon Machine Image) 
7)Different ways to connect to ec2 instance if we lost the pem file? 
A) If you have lost the PEM file for your EC2 instance, there are several ways to connectto your 
instance:  
• Recover the PEM file from a backup, if available. 
• Create a new EC2 instance and attach the EBS volume of the original instance to it to access the data. 
Use AWS Systems Manager Session Manager to connect to your EC2 instance 
without requiring a key pair. Use EC2 Instance connect to your EC2 instance without requiring a key pair. 
8)What is AWS instance store? 
AWS Instance Store provides temporary, locally-attached block-level storage to EC2 instances for 
applications requiring high I/O performance and low-latency access. It's physically attached to the host 
server, providing a direct and dedicated connection to the instance. However, its data is lost when the 
instance is stopped or terminated. It can be used in conjunction with Amazon EBS to provide durable 
and scalable storage. 
9)What are different Instance types? 
A) General Purpose instances: These instances are suitable for a broad range of workloads, including 
web servers, small databases, and development environments. 
Compute Optimized instances. These instances are designed for compute intensive workloads such as 
high-performance computing batch processing and video encoding 
Memory-Optimized instances: These instances are optimized for workloads that require high memory 
resources, such as in-memory databases and data analytics  
Storage Optimized Instances: These instances are designed for workloads that require high storage 
capacity and fast disk performance, such as big data processing and data warehousing GPU Instances: 
These instances are optimized for workloads that require high-performance graphics processing, such as 
machine learning and gaming. 
10)What is the Difference between OnDemand and Reserved instances? 
On-Demand instances are pay-as-you-go and offer the most flexibility, allowing you to spin up or down 
instances as needed, without any upfront commitment You pay for the computing resources you 
consume on an hourly basis, and the pricing can vary depending on demand and availability. 
Reserved instances, on the other hand, require an upfront payment for a one-or three-year term in 
exchange for a discount on the hourly usage rate. They are best suited for predictable workloads that 
require a certain amount of computing capacity over a longer period of time. Reserved instances can 
offer significant cost savings compared to On-Demand instances over time, but require a commitment 
upfront. 
11)Can we use HDD volumes as root volumes? 
A) • No, only SSD is used. 
12)What is the difference between Spot Instances and Burstable Instances? 
Spot instances are a purchasing option that allows you to bid on unused EC2 capacity in the AWS cloud. 
The hourly rate for a spot instance varies based on supply and demand for that instance type and can be 
significantly lower than the On-Demand rate. However, AWS can terminate a Spot instance with two 
minutes of notification when the instances market price exeeds your bid price or when the capacity is no 
longer available. 
• Burstable instances, also known as T instances are a type of instance that are designed for workloads 
that have short-term bursts of CPU usage. These instances offer a baseline level of CPU performance 
with the ability to burst above the baseline level when needed.  
13)what is the difference between EBS and EFS? 
A) EBS provides block-level storage volumes that can be attached to EC2 instances.These volumes 
act as raw block devices and are used to store data persistently,such as databases or file systems. 
EBS volumes can be backed up, snapshot, and restored when needed  
• EFS provides a scalable and fully managed network file system that can be accessed by 
multiple EC2 instances concurrently. EFS uses the NFS (Network File System) protocol to mount 
file systems, and it can automatically scale to petabyte-scale storage with high throughout and 
low latency. 
14)How to take the backup of EBS volume? 
To take a backup of an EBS volume in AWS, you can create a snapshot of the volume. Open the Amazon 
EC2 console, select the EBS volume, choose "Create Snapshot" from the "Actions" menu, and provide a 
name and description for the snapshot. EBS snapshots are incremental and stored in Amazon $3 for 
future use. 
15)What is the different type of EBS volumes? 
• General Purpose SSD (gp2) 
• Provisioned IOPS SSD (io1)  
• Throughput Optimized HDD (st1) 
• Cold HDD (sc1)  
• Magnetic (standard) 
16)What is VPC and Subnets? 
A) • VPC is a logically isolated virtual network that allows launching resources in a defined set of IP 
addresses. Subnets are subdivisions of a VPC's IP address range that help allocate and manage IP 
addresses for resources. Subnets can be created in different Availability Zones for high 
availability and fault tolerance. 
17)What is CIDR? 
A)  CIDR stands for Classless Inter-Domain Routing and is a method used to specify the size of a 
network's address space. It allows network administrators to specify the number of available IP 
addresses and divide networks into smaller subnets. CIDR notation is expressed using a 
combination of an IP address and a subnet mask. 
18)What is a public subnet and private subnet? 
A) • Public subnet is exposed to internet. Means EC2 instances with public IP are accessible from 
the internet. We make a subnet public using internet gateway.  
• Private subnet is one which is not exposed to the internet. We usually keep private 
applications like DBS, internal apps in a private subnet 
19)What is an internet gateway? 
A) It is a virtual gateway which provides internet connection to VPC and subnets. It provides both 
inbound and outbound internet communications. One VPC can have only one internet gateway. 
20)EC2 instances in private subnets want to download patches from the internet, how do you configure 
this? 
A) Use NAT instances or NAT gateways. 
21)In which subnet you put your NAT? 
A) NAT should be put in a public subnet  
22)Differences Between NAT instance & NAT Gateway? 
A) NAT instance and NAT Gateway are used to enable instances in a private subnet to access the 
internet. NAT Gateway is a fully managed service, highly available. and scalable up to 45 Gbps, 
while NAT instance requires maintenance and additional configuration for high availability. NAT 
Gateway is generally more expensive but provides better performance and ease of use, while 
NAT instance offers more control and customization 
23)What is EIP (Elastic IP)? 
A) EIP is a static public IP, it will never change, until you release it. We can detach from an instance 
and attach to another instance. 
24)What is the VPC endpoint? 
A) A VPC endpoint is a service that allows secure and private access to AWS services from a VPC. It 
eliminates the need for an internet gateway, NAT device, or VPN connection. Traffic flows over 
the Amazon network instead of the internet, which can improve security and reduce data 
transfer costs. VPC endpoints can be created for various AWS services and are highly available 
and scalable. 
25)What is VPC peering? 
A)  VPC peering connects two Amazon VPCs privately, allowing instances to communicate using 
private IP addresses. It is established by defining a peering connection and specifying the 
allowed IP ranges. 
26)What is the difference between security groups and NACL ? 
A) Security groups and Network Access Control Lists (NACLS) are both used to control access to 
resources in an Amazon VPC Security groups operate at the instance level, controlling inbound 
and outbound traffic based on the IP address, part and protocol, and are stateful, NACLs operate 
at the subnet level, controlling traffic based on the IP address, port, and protocol and are 
stateless Security groups provide finer grained control at the instance level, while NACLS provide 
broader control at the subnet level 
27)Why we use transit gateway? 
A) AWS Transit Gateway is a service that simplifies the management of VPC and VPN connections. 
It connects multiple VPCS and VPNs together and routes traffic using a single gateway. Transit 
Gateway provides hub and spoke connectivity, reducing the need for multiple VPN connections 
and network appliances It is used to build a scalable and highly available network architecture 
that spans multiple accounts and regions. 
28)What is Load balancing? 
A) Load balancer acts like a single point of contact for backend ec2 instances. Using load balancer, 
we achieve HA for our applications Using a load balancer, we scale our applications  
29)What is the difference between application load balancer and network load balancer? 
A) Application Load Balancer (ALB) is a Layer 7 load balancer that routes traffic based on content of 
the request, such as the URL or cookies, while Network Load Balancer (NLB) is a Layer 4 load 
balancer that routes traffic based on IP protocol data. ALB is designed to handle HTTP/HTTPS 
traffic and provides advanced features such as path based routing and host-based routing, while 
NLB is designed to handle TCP/UDP traffic and provides high performance and scalability. ALB 
supports SSL/TLS offloading, sticky sessions, and integration with AWS services like AWS ECS and 
AWS EKS, while NLB supports static IP addresses, high throughput, and connectionless load 
balancing. 
30)What is Connection draining? 
A) For example, we set connection draining value as 60 seconds, if we want to ester or if ec2 is 
unhealthy it can't be suddenly taken out of service, w should give some time for the instance to 
finish processing inflight requests. 
31)What is Stickiness? 
A) By default, requests from a user are distributed to all ec2 instances in the load balancer. But 
with stickiness we can take a user request to stick to one instance. 
32)What is Idle Timeout Load balancing?  
A) Idle Timeout is the number of seconds a connection can be idle before the load balancer closes 
the connection. 
33)What is AWS WAF? 
A)  AWS WAF is a web security service that blocks common web exploits by creating custom rules 
to block malicious traffic, including SQL injection and cross-site scripting it integrates with AWS 
services like AWS CloudFront and AWS Application Load Balancer, and can be used to protect 
both AWS hosted and on- premises web applications. 
34)What is AWS Auto Scaling Group? 
A) The idea of autoscaling is to add/remove instances on a need basis. The capacity is dynamically 
changed by autoscaling, and it is cost effective. Auto scaling itself is free, but autoscaling 
launches EC2 for that we have to pay. It provides better fault tolerance, that is if an instance is 
unhealthy, it terminates and launches a new one. It provides better availability, that is it always 
maintains the exact capacity that is needed. 
35)What is auto Scaling cooldown period? 
A) In step wise scaling, if two consecutive scaling activities are triggered within a cooldown period, 
the second one is suppressed. 
36)What is auto Scaling instance Warmup? 
A) Instances launched in auto scaling can take some time for initialization and only then its metrics 
need to be counted in autoscaling. 
37)What is SNS, SOS, SES? 
A) Simple Notification Service (SNS) used for notifications, like CPU is high send alerts, Status 
Checks Failed, send alerts 
B)  • Simple Email Service (SES) is used for sending and receiving emails. We can choose custom 
email as a sender email To send emails, we have to verify email or domain.  
C)  Simple Queue Service (SQS) is used for integrating applications. For example, application one 
wants to share data with application two. Queues are used for asynchronous integration of 
applications 
38)How do you monitor EC2 memory and disk using Cloud Watch? 
A) By default, Cloud watch does not monitor them, we have to install Cloud watch agent and send 
custom metrics to Cloud watch. 
39)How to monitoring EC2 Instance? 
A) From Cloud watch dashboard metrics→metrics →all metrics→EC2  
40)How do you monitor EC2 memory and disk using CloudWatch? 
A) By default, CloudWatch does not monitor them, we have to install CloudWatch agent and send 
custom metrics to CloudWatch. 
41)What are the steps to 53 Static Website Hosting? 
A) Grant public read access for all objects in S3.Upload our website code,Enable static website 
hosting under bucket properties. 
42)What are system checks and instance checks in EC2? 
A) System checks and instance checks are automated processes in EC2 that en instances are 
running smoothly and communicating properly with other components of the environment 
System checks verily the underlying host hardware and software, while instance checks verify 
the instance itself System checks detect and resolve issues that could prevent instances from 
cunning property, such as network interface problems and insufficient disk space Instance 
checks verify that instances can connect to the internet, are running the correct security settings, 
and have no errors in the operating system or software applications. Both system checks and 
instance checks are crucial for maintaining the reliability and availability of EC2 instances. 
43)What is the difference between the IAM User and IAM role? 
A) IAM users have permanent AWS identities, while IAM roles have temporary AWS identities. IAM 
users represent individuals who need access to resources, while IAM roles represent 
applications or services. IAM users are associated with specific permissions and policies, while 
AM roles are associated with policies that determine what actions the role can perform IAM 
roles provide an extra layer of security by allowing access to resources only for a limited time 
period. 
44)How to perform the cross-account access in AWS? 
A) Cross-account access in AWS enables users in one AWS account to access resources in another 
account. This can be done using IAM Roles, AWS STS, AWS Resource Access Manager (RAM), or 
AWS Organizations. To set up cross-account access, appropriate (AM policies and roles must be 
created, trust relationships between accounts must be configured, and security best practices 
should be followed, such as using MFA authentication and restricting access to necessary 
resources Cross-account access can help simplify resource management and reduce the need for 
multiple AWS accounts. 
45)What is Elastic cache in AWS? 
A) It is an in-memory database, instead of storing data on disk, it stores data in RAM, it offers fast 
access to data. It is used to solve performance issues at application level. 
46)What are AWS CloudTrail? 
A) AWS CloudTrail is a service that records API calls made to AWS services and provides a complete 
audit trail of events. CloudTrail can be used for security analysis, resource change tracking, and 
compliance auditing. CloudTrail logs include details such as the identity of the caller, the time of 
the call, the source IP address, and the request parameters. Cloud Trail can be integrated with 
other AWS services, such as AWS CloudWatch, to trigger alerts and automated responses based 
on specific events 
47)How to configure Send Email every time EC2 instance is launched? 
A) To send an email every time an EC2 instance is launched, you can create an AWS Lambda 
function triggered by an EC2 CloudTrail event. The function can use an email service, such as 
Amazon SES, to send the email. Then, configure an Amazon CloudWatch rule to trigger the 
Lambda function whenever an EC2 instance is launched Finally, test the setup by launching an 
EC2 instance and verifying that you receive the email notification. 
48)If we need an DB engine not supported by RDS, then how to use that? 
A) Launch EC2 and Install and configure. 
49)What is RDS Multi AZ Deployment? 
A) RDS Multi-AZ Deployment is a feature of Amazon RDS that provides automatic, synchronous 
replication of a database to a standby instance in a different Availability Zone. This enhances the 
availability and durability of the database in case of a primary AZ failure Failover is automatic 
and transparent to the user 
50)What is RDS Read Replicas in AWS? 
A) RDS Read Replicas is a feature of Amazon RDS that allows read scalability for a database 
instance. Read Replicas are read-only copies of the primary instance that handle read traffic and 
reduce the load on the primary instance. They are updated asynchronously, so data consistency 
may be slightly delayed. Read Replicas are available for several RDS database engines. 
51)How to take RDS automatic backup? 
A) To enable automatic backups for an RDS instance, go to the Amazon RDS console and select the 
instance Click the "Modify button and scroll down to the "Backup" section Set the desired 
backup retention period and backup window and then click "Apply immediately" and "Modify 08 
instanor HDS will now tak automated backups of the instance within the specified retention 
period and backup window. You can view and manage the backups in the "Backups" section of 
the RDS console. 
52)What is 53 in AWS? Why we use it? 
A) Amazon 53 Simple Storage Servicel is a scalable, durable, and secure object storage service in 
AWS. It is used to store and retrieve any amount of data from anywhere on the internet, such as 
fites, images, videos, backups, and logs. 53 is also integrated with other AWS services, providing 
a simple and cost-effective way to store and access data across different AWS services. It offers 
a variety of storage classes and features such as versioning lifecycle policies, and encryption to 
customize storage according to specific needs 53 can also be used to host static websites. 
53)S3 Bucket Versioning? 
A) 53 Bucket Versioning is a feature in Amazon 53 that enables keeping multiple versions of an 
object in the same bucket. When enabled, every write operation on an object creates a new 
version of that object instead of overwriting the existing object. This provides additional 
protection against accidental deletion or modification of objects and allows retrieving previous 
versions of an object Versioning can be enabled for a bucket through the 53 management 
console or programmatically. 
54)What is AWS Snowball? 
A) AWS Snowball is a data transport solution that accelerates moving terabytes to petabytes of 
data into and out of AWS using storage appliances designed to be secure for physical transport. 
55)What are the S3 storage classes in AWS? 
A) 53 Standard for frequently accessed data  
B) S3 Intelligent Tiering for data with unknown or changing access patterns  
C) S3 Standard-Infrequent Access (53 Standard-1A): for infrequently accessed data with rapid 
access times 
D) S3 One Zone-Infrequent Access (53 One Zone-IA): for infrequently accessed, non critical data 
that can be recreated if lost 
E) S3 Glacier: for long-term data archival and digital preservation  
F) 53 Glacier Deep Archive for long-term storage of data that can be restored within 12 hours 
56)What is 53 Lifecycle rules? 
A) Use lifecycle rules to define actions you want Amazon S3 to take during an object's lifetime such 
as transitioning objects to another storage class, archiving them, or deleting them after a 
specified period of time. For example, we store application logs in $3, we may need to access 
them frequently when logs are new, and when they become old, we do not access them 
frequently, so to optimize the cost, we want to set following rules on objects 
• After 30 days move to Standard IA 
• After 60 days move to Glacier 
• After 90 days move to Glacier Deep Archive 
• After 1 year they expire 
57)What is Route53 in AWS? 
A) Route53 is a highly available and scalable DNS web service offered by AWS. It enables routing 
end-users to Internet applications by translating human- readable domain names into IP 
addresses Route53 offers several features such as domain registration, DNS routing, health 
checks, fallover, and traffic management to improve the availability, performance, and security 
of your web applications or websites. It's integrated with other AWS services such as Elastic 
Load Balancing, AWS Certificate Manager, and CloudFront to provide a complete solution for 
hosting and managing your web applications or websites. 
58)What is the difference between aname and cname records? 
A) The A record (Address Record) and CNAME (Cahonical Namel record are both types of DNS 
records used in Route53 to map domain names to IP addresses The A record maps a domain 
name to an IPv4 address, while the CNAME record maps a domain name to another domain 
name. A record is used to map a domain name directly to an IP address, whereas CNAME record 
is used to map a domain name to another domain name, and then let the other domain name 
resolve to the P address. A record can be used to map a root domain, whereas a CNAME ricord 
cannot. A record is faster to resolve than a CNAME record, as it requires only one DNS lookup, 
while CNAME requires two 
59)What are the routing policies in Route53? 
A)  Route53 offers multiple routing policies that allow you to manage traffic flow for your DNS 
queries: These policies include Simple routing, Weighted routing Latency-based routing, Failover 
routing, Geolocation routing, and multi-value answer routing With these policies you can control 
traffic distribution, minimize latency, improve application availability and resiliency, and respond 
to network outages. Choosing the right routing policy depends on your use case, traffic patterns, 
and geographic distribution of your end-users. By leveraging these policies, you can optimize the 
performance and reliability of your applications or websites. 
60)What are AWS CloudFront? Why we use it? 
A) AWS CloudFront is a content delivery network that provides a globally distributed network of 
caching servers to accelerate the delivery of static and dynamic content. CloudFront improves 
website/application performance, cost- effectively scales to handle large amounts of traffic, 
increases reliability and availability, and provides better security by integrating with AWS 
services like AWS WAF and AWS Shield. By leveraging CloudFront, you can improve user 
experience, reduce latency, and minimize the load on your application servers, all while ensuring 
the security and availability of your applications. 
61)What is CloudFront edge location? 
A) AWS Cloudfront edge location is a data center located in various geographical ocations around 
the world. These edge locations cache and distribute conta to end-users with low latency and 
high performance when a user requests content. CloudFront routes the request to the nearest 
edge location where content is cached and served to the user. This helps reduce the amount of 
time takes to retrieve and deliver content, improving performance and reducing latency. 
62)What is AWS Lambda? 
A) AWS Lambda is a serverless computing service that allows users to run code without the need to 
manage servers or infrastructure. It supports multiple programming languages and can be 
triggered by various events. It is a cost effective solution for running small and infrequent 
workloads. 
63)Write a Lambda function to list the $3 buckets and objects? 
A) import boto3 
def lambda handler(event, context): 
s3=boto3.client('s3') 
response=s3.list_buckets() 
for bucket in response [‘Buckets’]: 
print(‘Bucket: {}’. Format(bucket[‘Name’])) 
objects=s3.list_objects(Bucket=bucket[‘Name']) 
for obj in objects[‘Contents’]: 
print(‘Object: {}’.format(obj[‘Key’])) 
